well howdy there Internet people let's
go again today we've got another
candidate for us from the Green Party
and I'm gonna let her do this himself go
ahead sir hey des hi my name is Howie
Hawkins I'm a recently retired teamster
been active in social movement since the
1960s civil rights anti-war the
environment was one of the people to
help form the Green Party in 1984 the
Greens of running statewide in New York
State four times against Hillary Clinton
for US Senate in 2006 and in 3 given
gubernatorial races to 2010 2014 2018 in
2010 I was the first candidate in this
country to call for a green new deal for
a climate action and basic economic
rights and in 2014 we got 5 percent of
the vote which is the most a third party
candidate has ever got on the left in
New York it said for to socialists right
after World War one they got a half a
percent more than me so I've run you
know large-scale campaigns and Here I am
running for the Green Party nomination
for president which wasn't my idea much
people drafted me so I just like to say
it's not just me out here it's a
collective leadership it's a group
that's diverse in terms of race and
gender and geography and sexual
orientation and age and we have two
major objectives one is to build the
Green Party into a real major party in
this country take steps toward that
during this campaign and the other is to
advance eco socialist solutions to
pressing problems and there are three
life-and-death issues they were
emphasizing excuse me one is the climate
crisis second is growing inequality
because inequality kills we now have a
20 year life expectancy gap between our
richest and poorest counties and if you
break it down by census tract it's even
greater and in the third life or death
issue is this new nuclear arms race
we're modernizing our nuclear forces
both strategic and tactical
we're getting out of nuclear treaties so
we're calling for a pledge of no first
use unilaterally disarming to arming to
a minimum credible deterrent and on the
basis of those tension reducing
initiatives go to the nuclear powers
around the world and say we got to get
rid of these weapons of mass destruction
and negotiate complete neutral nuclear
disarmament which we've been obligated
to try to do since the 1970 nuclear
non-proliferation treaty and they're now
122 nations have agreed to the wording
of a treaty for the prohibition of
nuclear weapons in 2017 and the campaign
for abolition of nuclear weapons got the
Nobel Peace Prize for that in 2017 and
very few Americans even know about it
and none of the presidential candidates
are talking about it so if for no other
reason that's why we need the greens in
this election
all right so for those people who wonder
what good a third party is gonna do what
do you what do you have to say is for
them what why are you running
well if progresses we're on a
progressive side the progressives and
socialists don't run their own
candidates they're gonna vote for the
Democrats and you get lost in the sauce
your vote is a Democrat you don't know
if it's a socialist Sanders boat or a
corporatist Clinton boat it's all
they're mixed up so the left disappears
our arguments disappear we don't speak
to ourselves we kind of try to play
political ventriloquism you know and get
a Joe Biden or somebody to say and do
what we would do but they they'll never
do that so if we're gonna have a left
and alternative in this country we got
to have our own independent voice in our
own independent power and it may be you
know relatively small vote at first but
when I got that 5% for governor in New
York in 2014 Andrew Cuomo he was getting
ready to run for president he wanted
more votes than his daddy got Marriott
Cuomo he wanted more votes than he got
in 2010 and he got less votes and he
looked around he saw this
Howie Hawkins his teamster got five
percent of the vote what was he talking
about and I was talking about a ban on
fracking
$15 minimum wage tuition free public
higher education and paid family leave
and Cuomo had to move on
those in order to compete for our roads
so you don't have to win the office tab
leveraging the political process and
move the ball down the field so that's
why we need a third party right at the
very least you can get a major party to
pick up at least pieces of your platform
if you have a good showing now you
brought up nuclear proliferation maybe
give some insight into like pulling out
of open skies and all of that because
we've talked about it on the channel but
I'm not sure that it's I'm not sure it's
something that everybody understands on
the level of this is what was going on
and this is what can happen now I'm not
sure what your open skies references do
it's a one of the treaties it's a I
think it was called open skies yeah open
skies it's a treaty that Trump pulled
out of between the US and Russia it
allow basically limited
intermediate-range nuclear weapons yeah
yeah okay
I had referred heard that referred to as
open skies but that is really important
because back in the 80s when we had this
nuclear freeze movement and Reagan and
Gorbachev really reduced the number of
weapons and almost went to complete
disarmament it was broke that's when the
missiles in Europe the
intermediate-range missiles were pointed
right at each other with such a short
reaction time you really didn't have
time to react and then we were worried
that somebody has launched a preemptive
strike because of tensions rising and
they wanted to get him off before the
other side did so they lose their own
and that's where we're at right now with
this nuclear modernization program
multitrillion-dollar multi-decade
program the United States is updating
their strategic forces and their
tactical nukes they're reducing the size
of tactical moves to make them easier to
use on conventional battlefields as if
you start throwing tactical nukes around
and it's not going to escalate the
strategic nukes and in a strategic nukes
they're hypersonic they're six times
faster than the ones we got and again
that puts us in a situation like we have
with that Missile Crisis in the 80s
there will be time
yeah so somebody may shoot them off
because they're afraid the other side
will first and that's why the bulletin
of the Atomic Scientists has the
Doomsday Clock at 2 minutes to midnight
now which is as high as it's ever been
this is really a dangerous situation the
rest of the world is very concerned
about it that's why they adopted this
treaty for the prohibition nuclear
weapons two years ago we're not even
talking about it in this country when I
ask people how many people know that the
campaign for the abolition of nuclear
weapons got the Nobel Peace Prize I have
yet to find anybody and I've talked with
thousands of people who even knew that
our media is not covenant our candidates
tonight it's a bipartisan policy to back
this nuclear modernization program which
is a race to doomsday we gotta stop it
now as far as the the green New Deal
how does yours vary from the one that
the Democrats adopted they didn't adopt
it that's right this has been a
signature issue of the Green Party for
the last decade and for us it's a
combination of a green economy
reconstruction program to convert the
economy to reducing greenhouse gas
emissions to zero and producing all
energy by renewable sources by 2030
because that's what the climate science
carbon budget say we got to do in the
rich countries to have any hope of
avoiding real climate catastrophe and
the Democrats right after the 2018
election you know Alexander Ocasio
Cortes and the sunrise movement they sat
in and speaker Pelosi's office and said
we want a green new deal and Pelosi took
what they proposed which is a select
committee and sliced diced and threw
that down the disposal so they came back
with a non-binding resolution but it
took the brand and diluted the content
to Green Party's been talking about it
extended the deadline from 2030 to 2050
it eliminated the ban on fracking and
new fossil fuel infrastructure if we
build out fossil fuel infrastructure
we're going to be burning fossil fuels
for three four or five decades and we're
cooked it eliminated phasing out nuclear
weapons of nuclear power and it stopped
talking about cutting
military budget in a major way to put
that money into a green new deal so
those would be pretty big changes and
even then Pelosi won't even let the
House vote on it and when it got to the
Senate McConnell said well half the
Democrats are running for president
let's get you on a record and Schumer
the Democratic leader said oh this is a
trick I want you all to go present okay
and all the goods that the Democrats
voted president set for it and voted
Republicans against it so first of all
the Democrats are not going to get us a
green new deal now Bernie Sanders I will
say has a serious proposal all the
others are not serious they're talking
one to three trillion dollars over ten
years and it's mostly tax incentives and
subsidies to business and that's just
not going to get it done we have a
people socialist budget for a green new
deal you can find it on my website how
we all can start us and we costed it out
to do that one percent clean energy by
2030 and 27 trillion dollars over ten
years
Bernie's at sixteen point three trillion
and that's because he's extended the
deadline to 2050 because we think his
numbers are pretty good and he did bring
back those policies that I said were
eliminated the ban on fracking and new
fossil fuel infrastructure the
elimination of nuclear power and cutting
the military budget although he's not so
specific on that but we think he's got a
serious proposal we'll give him that
it's just too slow we say 2030 he says
2050 so you know Democrats have taken
like I said they took the brand and
diluted the content except for Sanders
there's nothing much worth talking about
what they're talking about all right so
a little bit more about your history
because I'm sure some people are gonna
listen to this and they're just gonna
say you know here's some hippie I was
looking at your bio you've got some some
other background as well that might
appeal the other side a little bit yeah
well back in the 60s we distinguish
between the political radicals and the
hippies and sometimes we'd all show up a
DNA war demos but we were coming from
very different kind of cultural
backgrounds you know I've been a
construction worker and a teamster
my adult life when my draft number came
up during the Vietnam War I enlisted in
the Marine Corps to join the GI movement
against the war which was very strong at
that time it sounds kind of crazy to
enlist in the Marine Corps but when I
got there it was officer training was
off-campus training because I was
drafted out of college and I'll tell you
the veterans they didn't want go back to
Vietnam they thought that was the wrong
war I mean there was some young guys
they wanted to be we didn't ever amble
yet it was John Wayne back then you know
they wanted to be the next John Wayne
but the veterans knew that that was not
a just war not a war we should be
fighting you know it was their country
and what the hell were we doing there so
even in the Marine Corps there was you
know the Vietnam syndrome as it was
called at that time so you know hippies
didn't do that kind of thing you know
but I have so you know I'm nothing
against hippies but I'm more you know
blue-collar kind of guy now as far as
one of the big complaints that we hear
about the green new deal is but what
about jobs now you know your if we do
this we're gonna eliminate fossil fuel
jobs what happens to those people
blue-collar workers well we we provide
for a just transition to the jobs that
will be created by the green new deal
and I costed this out with the political
economist named John Wren who's been
working on this for a decade and we come
up with 30 plus million jobs to build
this green infrastructure over the next
decade the problem will not be
technology it will not be finding the
money the problem will be find enough
people to do the work we will have full
employment building the South jobs is
not the problem the corporations always
say it's jobs versus the environment and
they're full of it like they are with a
lot of their false advertising and you
know the fossil fuel industry promoting
fake science saying there wasn't a
problem when they knew themselves or all
scientists was saying there is a climate
problem coming so you know jobs is not
the issue we got plenty of jobs with the
Green Deal
so what are some of the other key pieces
of the platform that you would want to
expand on and tell people about well we
have a ladder and besides the three
life-and-death issues I talked about let
me just elaborate on you know how the
green new deal deals with the inequality
issue because we call for a economic
Bill of Rights this is something that's
been on the public agenda since Franklin
Roosevelt as president called for it in
his last two State of the Union
addresses in 1944 in 1945 he wanted
Congress to enact 'us and they never had
and what those rights include is a job
guarantee so you get a public job if you
can't get a private job providing public
services or public works that the
community is defined as needed an income
above poverty guarantee and that can be
built into the tax structure so if your
incomes below the poverty line you get a
check every month to bring you up to the
poverty line until you can get to the
point where you're making enough money
you're over the poverty line it would
provide affordable housing for all which
for us is we got to expand public
housing and do it the right way multi
income diverse rather than segregated
housing for people of color away from
public transportation and every other
resource they do that in Europe and it
cross subsidizes the cost less it's the
quickest way to build affordable housing
what we've been doing since about 1970
is subsidizing private developers with
tax breaks and it's more expensive that
way we also need immediately Universal
rent control because the rent is too
damn high and we did that during World
War two when we converted to building
arms to fight the fascists and we
weren't building housing and the housing
rates started going up so the fits that
we're just gonna you know have rent
control for the duration so that's the
immediate relief next thing is
comprehensive health care for all and
that's the Medicare for all type program
we actually want to do a national health
service like they do in England rather
than just national health insurance so
the doctors work in public clinics and
hospitals on the public salary and there
are democratic Ward's elected locally
that federated at the state and national
level so we have community control and
we have better cost control because you
don't have income maximizing
organizations like hospital
and clinics and of course the drug
companies trying to feed off the trough
of public insurance and then next is a
secure retirement and I'm gonna have a
statement out tomorrow the Teamsters
have a presidential forum I'm the only
teams to run for president they didn't
invite me but as a teamster they asked
to send in a video question which I did
I said my pension was cut 20% because of
law both parties passed in 2014 called
the multi-employer pension reform Act it
took away our protections under the
employment Retirement Income Security
Act of 1974 where before they couldn't
take away our earned benefits my pension
was cut 20% to the net loss so I asked
those candidates after explaining net
I'm so mad about it I'm running for
president but I want to know what you're
gonna do and we'll see on Saturday so I
got a statement coming out about that
but I think the media thing beyond those
of us were still have defined benefit
pensions which is a shrinking minority
we need to double Social Security
benefits by raising the cap eliminating
the cap on income that pays the Social
Security tax and some other progressive
tax reforms the baby boomer generation
now one third of them are still paying
their home mortgage 2.8 million of them
are still paying student loans wages
have been stagnant our whole adult
working life since the early 70s but the
cost of housing healthcare and college
in particular has escalated well beyond
the inflation rate so most baby boomers
don't have any savings and you know the
average Social Security benefits about
$15,000 a year can't live on that so
that's the way we're gonna get
retirement security so that's the
economic Bill of Rights beyond that we
need to address some of the real abuse
as we see like the atrocities on the
border the children got to be connected
with their families our policy is let's
have open borders with Mexico and the
Central American countries like Europe
as the European Union within their
countries you know the border move is
submitted
Chicanos like to say we didn't move
across the border to border moved across
US after the war 1848 and
a lot of people have family on both
sides that go back and forth you know
let's have the borders open for shopping
recreation employment residents and you
know if people are right afraid
everybody such America will suddenly
come here as they need to ask themselves
why everybody in Greece didn't go
somewhere else in Europe when Greece was
a basket case most people don't want to
move they want to you know make a living
where they can and many of these
immigrants just want to come here make
some money and send it back to their
families back home so we got just
relaxed about the immigrants this is a
nation of immigrants let's make it a
strength instead of some were afraid of
that's a big issue I mean there are a
lot of issues we got to stop the mass
surveillance you know I think it would
Snowden's a real hero and I would pardon
all the whistleblowers who were charged
under the Espionage Act which in itself
is totally unjust you can't defend
yourself with a public interest argument
that the information you're release was
in the public interest
that's not even permitted so it's a it's
a kangaroo court kind of situation but I
pardon them all but if I was president I
bring Edward Snowden into the
administration because the way he sees
the world the biggest conflict now is
between democracy and democratic rights
and freedom versus authoritarian regimes
and these mass surveillance systems like
the United States set up they're
surveilling us all to the NSA that's
what Snowden ago exposed but no look at
China with his Social Credit system
where they are ranking everybody based
on what they buy and they got all this
facial recognition technology I mean it
makes chart George Orwell's 1984 looked
like you know a beginner's course in
repression so I think that's a huge
issue we got to end mass surveillance
only surveillance when you get a warrant
from the court and not go on I mean
there are a lot of issues there dozens
of them but those are some of the
highlights I got a question for you
because it's a question I get a lot and
I never have a good answer how do people
of your mindset reach out to other
blue-collar workers because we're seeing
more and more blue collar swing right
and I get asked that a lot I don't
have a good answer I'm hoping you do
well I think those of us who are
progressives on the left we need to get
off our computers our Facebook or
Twitter
and go out and talk to real people and
build real organizations where people
meet and talk to each other you look at
the working class and we have common
interests well we're very divided
you know it's by race we're more
segregated actually than we were coming
out of World War two just physically
this the segregation is more distant
because of sprawling suburbs so people
know each other less but we're also
divided by occupational hierarchies you
know wage workers are in you know some
are white collar some of blue collar
some are in unions some are not the ones
that are not resent the ones that are
some are government they got better
protections in private sector small
business is different than big business
we got all these divisions and of course
the bosses are always telling us it's
those other workers that are your
problem
you know those immigrants those
minorities you know those people who got
a union or those people that don't got a
union and they divide us and we need to
find a way for us to sit down and talk
to each other get to know each other and
that to me is building a mass party of
working people and that is something
that takes a lot of you know footwork
and knocking on doors we got to be
organizers not just preaching at people
you know here's the answer but knocking
on a door and listening in here and what
dairy shoes are there working with them
on those issues building trust and
relationships you know across race lines
across geographical lines of
Occupational lines you know even you
know we got working-class people who are
administered by the stadium and the
welfare system or the prison system and
they don't see themselves I mean they're
in a situation where the people who are
administering them are also
working-class people
how do we bridge that gap so that's
where I think a party on the Left can
play a big role you know the unions
since they have automatic news check off
the bureaucracies kind of detached from
the members back in the old days the
shop steward had to go around and ask
the workers for the dues every mom
and the worker could kind of hold that
money back and say well what about my
bereavement sir you know what about this
and what about that they really had that
listen now that kind of detached so you
know getting our unions more reflective
of the rank-and-file and including them
is another issue and I think an
organized party could organize people to
do that so we need to be organizers as
well as activists and we need to be in
the streets not just on the internet
community organizing that's my that's
the answer and believe me my audience
ago laugh when they hear that because
that's the answer I was hoping for some
you know some stroke of brilliance on
health so if there is one thing that an
individual could do one you know by
themselves to change the world make it a
better place what do you got well find
one other person and then another person
there's strength in numbers and when
we're working together we get our ideas
tested we have to speak up for ourselves
we can prove our speaking ability or
ability to articulate our positions you
need to be in an organization so I think
the most important thing an individual
can doing is get involved in an
organization an organization is
democratic nothing about move on where
you wait to get your orders online by
some staff that some billionaires hired
and then they decide for us what we're
gonna do we need to be deciding for
ourselves and we're gonna make mistakes
but we're gonna learn from those
mistakes we got to be engaged that way
so I would tell individuals there's no
such thing as an unorganized socialist
you got to get in an organization sounds
good yeah I had I think I caught a delay
there for a second um so what do you
think your chances are of at least
driving some of these core issues into
the candidates you know into their
platforms well this is very tough here
you know Trump does got people scared
stupid they don't really wanna talk
about issues they just want to get Trump
out of there
that's people from the center to the
left so it's really hard to get traction
on the other hand you know our campaign
aims to get on all fifty one balance and
we are not just going for the Green
Party nomination I already have a
Socialist Party nomination they don't
have any ballot lines it's more like an
endorsement but that's good and then
there's about eight or so progressive
state parties and seeking their
nomination too so hopefully we'll build
a united independent left out of this
campaign and by the time we come out of
the Green Party convention in early July
we're gonna be on the ballot and then
you know the media will start to pay
attention and Democrats starting to pay
attention of course the first thing it
will say why you spoiling the election
go away and you know our answer is no
we're improving the election you're not
talking about the nuclear arms race you
botched the green New Deal you're really
not for Medicare for all and make our
case and the other thing we'll say and
this is an issue that needs to be raised
is that if you want to end the problem
of splitting the boat and quote-unquote
spoiling elections the Green Party's
been giving you the answer for two
decades since the 2000 election and that
is get rid of the electoral college and
have a national popular vote by ranked
choice voting ranked choice voting you
rank your choices one two three and if
nobody gets a majority in the first
round the last place candidate is
eliminated and they're both transferred
to their second choice and you keep that
process up until somebody gets the
majority of the votes that way people
can vote for the candidate they really
want without fearing they'll help their
worst enemy with that kind of election
nobody's gonna be asking the Greens why
we're in election they're gonna be
asking what's your position that's where
we want to get to and I'll be damned if
we're gonna let the Democrats you know
chase us away from the debate because
they won't take up the solution we've
been offering him for twenty years you
know join with us to fight for that
change a national popular vote with
ranked choice voting I should point out
after thinking about it Open Skies was
the surveillance thing you're right
that's why you didn't know the name I'm
on the wrong I'm yeah I was off on that
yeah it was surveillance of nukes not
actually the intermediate one
uh okay so uh I guess at the end of the
day you've got a platform that a lot of
progressives a lot of people who
consider themselves Democrats want to
embrace but it seems like your main
opposition is the Democratic
establishment I mean do you think that's
true well in terms of those that have
power yeah it's the Democratic
establishment I think we do have a
problem with progressive Democrats the
Democratic Party is really two parties
you got a progressive wing that Bernie
Sanders probably best represents
although some of them are supporting
Warren and some others and then you got
the establishment wing which is very
corporate you know Biden is the epitome
of that but there are a lot of the
others who to gauge is getting a lot of
money from that quarter both Wall Street
and Silicon Valley and not just here in
the day about military contractors so
you know I think the future of the Green
Party is two places one is those
progressive Democrats who finally get
fed up with getting yeah you know vote
getting their Democrats in and then they
don't get what they want we just had
that in New York for years we've had a
Republican Senate and the Democrats like
they passed for like twenty years in a
row a single-payer bill in the assembly
which the Democrats control well last
year the Democrats got control of the
Senate and then he couldn't pass
single-payer in the assembly so as now
it was for real and the insurance
companies were filling their coffers and
now the Democrats didn't get it done and
progresses you know they will see that
so there's about half the Democratic
Party ought to be able to greens but the
biggest bloc of voters the ones that win
almost every election are the nine
voters and that's mostly working-class
people people of color in young people
who are alienated by both parties and
feel like nobody knows what their issues
are cares about them even knows what
they're going through and those are the
people like we were talking about before
we got to reach by community organizing
you know building relationships by you
know community action and
back into the political process that is
the future majority base of a Green
Party that's a major party no I
definitely agree with that almost any
problem
all right so parting shot you had
anything you want to say that we didn't
cover do you have a website you want to
send people to petition that you need
them to sign anything like that yeah
well the place to go for all that is
Howie Hawkins dot us hatred w IE h a w
ki and s dot us put that in your search
engine and you'll get our website and on
the website you can find you know
statements that we've been making and
news about the campaign how to volunteer
out of donate and you know what we need
right now is it depends on the state
there are 51 jurisdictions we have
ballot status in 21 we got 30 more to go
and it depends on your state but you
contact the campaign we can put you in
touch for how to get ballot access in
your state if you don't have it we can
get you set up to do the kind of
electioneering canvassing we need to do
and that is talking to people get in
their name so we can stay in touch with
them and getting them ready for the
election a year from now grassroots
fundraising hosting house parties I mean
one of the goals this campaign is
everybody of volunteers we're gonna help
you find a way you can contribute
besides money you know everybody needs
to do that you know it's like we don't
fund us nobody will because we're not
taking corporate money it's got to be
lots of small people contributing you
know what they can so how we harken
start us I think that's where to follow
up all right all right so if you're
watching on YouTube this will be the end
of the show if you're on the podcast
there might be something coming on after
this I'm honestly not sure either way
it's just a thought and y'all have a
good night